[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: I guess the question is,
what questions do you have?
Like, probably the craziest
thing we did was this.
>> Speaker 2: So that filter is being
fired every time the value changes?
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: In either of those.
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: It is.
So every time you type,
it's doing that filter.
So, I mean, that's something to keep in
mind that this render function needs to be
pretty damn performant, because it's
gonna get run a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot.
So if you're doing really heavy lifting,
it's gonna slow down your entire render,
so you want to make sure
this is pretty fast.
We don't have that many shows, so
this actually ends up being pretty fast.
But if we were filtering
over a set of 10,000 movies,
you would want to offload
that somewhere else.
Maybe do some sort of debouncing
of that filter, right, so
that it would only filter every 500
milliseconds or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: What other questions?
Does this line make sense to people, or
does anyone else want me to re-explain it?
>> Speaker 3: Can you go
through it one more time?
>> Brian Holt: Sure, definitely.
So let's make this
a little bit more verbose.
I think that usually helps.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so that makes
it perhaps a little bit clearer.
Or we can even just make this function,
get rid of that.
Okay?
And then let's just break this
down piece by piece, okay?
So.
>> Brian Holt: First thing is
we're concatenating the title and
the description, right, because we
wanna search both in the title and
the description.
Okay.
We're making it, toUpperCase.
The reason why we want to
be case insensitive, right?
Otherwise, if I search for
lowercase house,
I wouldn't find House of Cards, right.
I want to find both of
those with lower case.
Okay.
indexOf is checking to say,
the said does this search term exist
anywhere inside of the string.
We're also making this toUpperCase,
right, so that it can match that as well.
And if it's less than 0, that means it
wasn't found anywhere in the string.
And if it's less than or
equal to zero, it can be zero,
because if it's the very first thing,
right?
So if I search for house,
it's gonna return 0 for
House of Cards, right, because that's
the first thing in House of Cards.
And, yeah, so if it returns true,
it keeps it in the array, right.
If it returns false,
it drops it from the arra.
Y so if I type house,
it's gonna drop daredevil,
because daredevil doesn't
have house anywhere in it.
>> Brian Holt: Better, worse?
Okay, cool.
>> Brian Holt: So we just made
this little bit more terse, right.
We left out the curly brace,
which means it's an implicit return.
And then we're using
arrow functions as well.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Speaker 4: Can you push a branch here?
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
I think we're gonna probably end here for
the day as well,
cuz I said I'd end at four.
And it's gonna take me at least another
half hour to 40 minutes to talk
about unit testing.
So.
>> Speaker 4: One question,
I don't know if you missed it,
this was a little bit ago.
Can you use fat arrows for
auto binding with ES6 classes?
>> Brian Holt: One of the standard
React rules is not to do that,
because it's very not performant.
.bind is actually a fairly, well, I mean,
comparatively fairly expensive maneuver.
And so when you're doing render at lot and
you're doing a lot of .binds,
which is what fat arrow functions
being compiled to Babel end up doing,
ends up being pretty expensive, so there's
actually a rule to disallow that in.
>> Brian Holt: With standard React.
So it does work, it's expensive.
That's the complete
answer to that question.
>> Brian Holt: Any other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Who eventually got here,
where it's filtering on the fly?
Cool.
Anyone seeing any weird errors
that they're not expecting?
>> Speaker 4: Somebody's asking, he might
get it once you push, but he's getting
input into the search box, but
it doesn't seem to trigger the re-render.
>> Brian Holt: My guess is that
somewhere is messed up with the search
term is not getting updated correctly.
So I would make sure that you
have handleSearchTerm, and
it's using this.setState.
I would recommend making sure that
the onChange is correct here, and
that the value is correct as well.
Okay.
If all of that is correct,
then I would check down here to make sure
that you're using this.state.searchTerm.
And that's the entire cycle
of how it gets there, so.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions or errors
or anything else you want to discuss?
I'll be pushing a branch
here just momentarily.
>> Speaker 5: I had a question.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 5: So
you said the reason if you have a bigger
list it's not as performant because
it has to filter all those.
How would we go about
making it more performant?
I mean, I know in Netflix,
it does a post request and
then it filters on the server side.
But if you want a more dynamic
single page app, what could we do?
>> Brian Holt: So
there's a couple solutions.
I mean, obviously the first one,
which you nailed, is server-side.
I could see something to the effect
of where you kept a smaller list of
hot titles that you would be more
interested in filtering over, and
then it's doing batched backend requests
to filter in other movie titles.
So you're just making sure that, my list
is definitely no greater than 100, and
then I'm gonna feed in dynamically.
So you type like, house, right,
it instantly shows you House of Cards, and
then it's gonna go show you, I don't know,
like House of something else,
some dumb movie that we carry on Netflix.
And it's just gonna kind of start
inserting those kind of asynchronously.
Just some way to figure out that that's.
If you had them all in memory, basically,
I would emulate that client-side, right,
where maybe in a service worker that would
be doing it, right, something like that.
I don't know.
You can get creative [LAUGH].
But just basically making sure that the
render is actually done on a fairly small
subset of them and that asynchronously,
you come back with a larger set.
That's the gist.
>> Speaker 6: So if I type house of and
my results come in,
when I continue typing to further define,
is it refiltering
the array that was already passed or
is it refiltering the whole array again?
>> Brian Holt: It's refiltering
the whole array every single time.
>> Speaker 6: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I wonder if you could do some sort of,
like, memoization.
Memoization is actually a great
answer to that question too,
where you're caching the output
of a function, right.
Cuz if you type house,
it's gonna get the same answer every time.
But then you can maybe possibly memoize
previous search results that, house,
and then house of, that's only
gonna be a further subset, right.
Perhaps.
Right now, we have a pretty dumb search,
right, that if you search for house of,
it's gonna make, it has to be house of and
not necessarily of house.
Or, they can't be in different
parts of the word, so
that doesn't work necessarily as well.
I don't know.
I'm sure you can get creative with that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Is React using any kind
of tree algorithms like we discussed
yesterday in the CS workshop for
the virtual DOM?
>> Brian Holt: The answer is yes.
It's creating a tree underneath
the hood and then it's doing diffing.
That's the magic secret sauce.
Beyond that, I actually haven't looked
at how they're doing the diffing.
But basically,
you have your DOM that lives out here,
you have your virtual DOM and they're
essentially supposed to mirror each other.
And then what I'm going to
do as the consumer of React,
I'm gonna make a bunch of changes
to the React DOM, the virtual DOM.
And then this is gonna do a diff against,
like, I have this, the DOM says this,
I'm gonna find just the right
amount of things that change, so
I'm just gonna update that,
update that, and update that, right.
Whereas something like Angular is like,
I'm gonna blow away the entire thing, and
then I'm gonna rerender it altogether,
which is much less performant.
So that's the basic gist of what the
virtual DOM is doing underneath the hood.
All that to say is,
you don't actually have to care.
That's an interesting side
note to what React is, but
it's not necessarily why you use React.
It's just an implementation detail.
But that's a good question.
>> Brian Holt: Any other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Great,
I think that I'll conclude for today.
You survived.
Halfway through.
And we'll pick up tomorrow.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE] I was wondering,
do we ever need to think about
the virtual DOM when we code?
>> Brian Holt: Nope, absolutely never.
That's the point.
Notice I've not said the word virtual,
I think I said it once today, right,
previously.
It's cuz you don't actually have to care,
which is a wonderful thing.
And the other thing is, tomorrow,
they can change it out to be some sort of
scheduling thing that no
longer uses a virtual DOM.
And again, you don't have to care.
You can keep writing React the same way.
In fact, I've been told that they have
some experimental branches now that
are working that are totally moving
away from the virtual DOM and
using something else.
I don't know if totally moving
away from the virtual DOM, but
totally reimplementing the way
that React works, fundamentally.
And you don't have to care,
it still works the same way to you, right.
It's a black box.